um I heard what I was listening to what
you're talking about
listen you're gonna trigger some stuff I
was like no no no no no I don't know I'm
gonna trigger some stuff but I wasn't
that will pay attention to yeah when the
ego is triggered yeah yeah ups and downs
but I think yesterday I had a I entered
a place where I felt like I was like I
can tell that there's two modes that I'm
in one is very small and activated and
I'm kind of stuck in a in like this hurt
anger shame thing and then another which
kind of doesn't even understand that you
know it's like a much more confident
place that so I kind of have noticed
that when I'm noticing trying okay
trying what well one of the practice
that you basically gave me was to notice
trying yep because I was trying all the
time and I noticed I mean I would love
to share the conclusion you know kind of
yeah the big reason say that I thought I
got it can I do that yeah please
so I feel that what I uncovered is this
sense so I wrote it down on this little
white board but so like I decided long
ago that kind of the world and other
people are acceptable as they are like I
don't really resist what what is the
external world's telling me and then
like but because people react negatively
to me all the time or I felt that they
did as a kid that I am unacceptable okay
I feel like but I know that deep down I
only kind of care about the other people
around me or whatever and I'm not gonna
hurt them you know and I want to be nice
and might want to be friends and so I
feel like what I noticed is okay I have
this inner sense of I just want to be
nice but then the outer response is
never that we just be friends and things
are simple it's always it in my young
part or whatever my young mind it's like
it always goes wrong
so I decided that
basically the problem is somewhere in
the middle like there's something going
on that's about me where I can't get out
that I want to be friends and want to be
nice and stuff so what I'm trying to do
is I'm kind of trying to control how the
stuff that's in gets out into like your
brain yeah you are trying you're trying
to control that you're trying to control
other people's perceptions of you that's
a hundred that's what I notice that I'm
trying and I also noticed that the
trying comes with a sense of panic yes
absolutely panicking at a very low level
pretty constantly okay and panic to me
it's kind of like even if I write
something on my hand in big letters I
can't see it because I'm like ruffling
through the papers of how to fix the
thing like the in panic there's like
such little awareness it's just on one
thing okay so let me just pause okay
we're good are we good on volume perfect
okay sorry that I was adjusting volume
so I I couldn't give you a hundred
percent attention but can you tell me
that part again about so you accept
other people for who they are but
somewhere along the way you decided that
you yourself were unacceptable that's
right and that when you interact with
people you feel some degree of panic
because so panic is a manifestation of
fear and fear is related to a particular
outcome yeah what is the outcome that
you're afraid of well okay that's
interesting so I guess the outcome that
I'm afraid of simply is that people are
not gonna see the real me okay like that
but it's really it's kind of a bigger
story where it's my fault
you know I'm gonna mess this up again
okay so tell me about when you started
messing things up so as I thought about
it I kind of realized that my thinking
that I messed things up started from a
very young age I have lashes of you know
I remember my uncle John it was hella
cool with me I remember the people who
felt safe and I remember it was a small
list of people and I also remember that
circumstances changed and that the safe
people would sometimes become unsafe and
I didn't know why so I want you to just
understand for a minute little [ __ ]
we're gonna dig into that for a second
okay but the first thing that I want you
to understand is that your mind operates
in different modes yes right so when
you're with safe people the some scar is
dormant okay and and so then that
complex of like I need to make sure that
this person likes me I need to be
careful with what I say this like all
that complex like that's why you think
about your uncle because you're some
scar was dormant and then what happens
is the some scar activates around other
people or some people who you thought
were safe do something that activates
the where your would be your intellect
says oh this actually matches the some
scar we're actually not safe right now
this is that situation yes it looks like
a horse but it's actually a wolf and oh
my god we have to be careful it's like a
wolf and the horses clothing right so it
and it so let's not get the Indians in
bad versus it's a bad analysis I was
just kind of saying that like it looks
like you're saying it looks like one
thing but then your mind says actually
it's not what you think it is that
person is not safe that person is
dangerous and we have to be back on we
have to go back to controlling the way
that they think about us
yeah so tell me about tell me about like
who like what do you remember about like
when you started to feel like you had to
control other people's perceptions
that's a really good question give me a
give me a second I can remember excuse
me I can remember being like four or
five or whatever and being around aunts
and uncles and having the sense that I'm
supposed to say something and not
knowing what that thing is
I also remember pretty clearly the
feeling of when I did talk about what
was interesting to me which is nerdy
[ __ ] no one understood what I was
talking about and people would kind of
look at each other and everybody would
be like oh this is weird and so I guess
I didn't draw the conclusion yet that
the the answer or the solution was to
control but I do remember feeling that
feeling that I respond to with the
trying at a very young age yeah so does
when did I admit when do I remember
actually trying though right sure we
could we can search you stay where you
are
so I want you to just put yourself in
the mind of a four or five year old who
tries to talk to an adult and the adults
kind of like it's clear that they sort
of care about you but then they kind of
yes how does that make the four-year-old
feel what happens in the four-year-olds
mind you're asking about what I think
and different for you I identify so
strongly with the four year old that I'm
I find that when you ask me that
question I feel yours asking me yep okay
what happens in your mind what happened
you're right it's almost worse right
that this person like has to love me and
care about me and they can't find what
I'm talking about interesting it's like
holy [ __ ] I must be so weird and boring
or whatever that
like the deck stacked in my favor absent
its still screwing it up so so so now we
see actually that the some scar is
enhanced because of their caring of you
yeah right the the 100 the heart that
you feel your like these people they
have to accept me yeah but it's clear to
me that they shouldn't want to yes yeah
actually as you bring that up I notice
like an inherent discomfort with the
feeling that someone might accept me or
want to be around me because they're
compelled to it not that they are
voluntarily choosing choosing like I
have a Harwich like a hypersensitivity
to yep so now we get to also something
so I think when you try to control other
people's reactions towards you
I imagine that that's quite painful for
you yeah and you can't help yourself
okay could I refine I mean this would be
just you know everyday this could be you
know you go and stuff I mean I would
love help with understanding what's
going on in my mind actually
my sense is that I carry the sense that
I'm unacceptable with me all the time
and then I actually am not necessarily
trying to control the other person's
reaction so much as perfectly filter out
what I am putting out there to avoid the
part that's like the unacceptable me so
I am in a sense trying to control the
reaction but from my own locus of
control absolutely
absolutely my presentation yeah so you
know great so so I think you're spot-on
so that's what I mean so what I'm what
I'm saying is that you're not letting
people form a genuine and authentic
judgment of you as a person absolutely
not I feel I've already made that
decision on their behalf actually one of
the things I noticed with the trying as
I was you know in the past week is that
for example if at work I want to get
something you know I think that
something's really important is the
right thing to do I will immediately go
to a line of reasoning that's basically
like I know that you shouldn't agree
with this idea just because I'm saying
it I'm so untrustworthy so don't look at
me look at the evidence in the document
that was produced and like the track
record like look at the objective stuff
because if you look at me I know that
you're gonna conclude that I'm bad and
wrong
you should do this idea in spite of the
fact that I'm attached to it or
associated with it
does that make sense makes a lot of
sense right so freezing term in net yeah
so your conclusion is that in that - so
you're trying to filter the part of
yourself which is unacceptable and in
your relying on documentation and logic
for people - because if they actually
saw you if they're the more they're able
to uncouple you from your work product
even more the better of the work will be
and if they see who you are then they're
not gonna have faith in you the you know
the work should stand on its own two
feet and it shouldn't be like tainted by
association with you right so at which
slot unfortunately also I think happens
to be true in terms of like when I think
about ideas for myself I shouldn't just
believe what I think because I think it
because that's like you know I should be
a group just so it's unfortunate that
I've kind of that that that's true
because I but anyway that was it was a
tangent so so let's go - why do you so
when you filter what does that feel like
for you when you filter who you are and
present it to the rest of the world what
does that feel like for you yeah it
feels terrible what feels terrible it
was terrible that mostly what feels
terrible about it
honestly when it feels really bad is the
bigger picture feeling that I have is
that I'm here and I just want to be
helpful and I don't want to hurt anybody
and I don't need anything in return and
ah no matter what I do that will never
come across that's what it feels like in
my mind like I don't know I feel like I
want it did someone my intent is to
sorry go ahead
no go ahead it's like the ideas that I
like or ones that everybody likes and so
like I'm coming and I'm trying to say
like hey I think I know how to help like
we could do this thing and then it's
gonna be good for you and you and you
and you and you and actually everyone
wins and it's better cuz these people
are hurting and they'll hurt less and
like you all are stressed out you'll be
less stressed out like let's just do
this and it's like there's this idea
that feels super pure that's just gonna
get it's almost like a dog it's gonna
get kicked it's like this innocent kind
of thing that for whatever reason I
can't so the I when the idea gets kicked
you mean that something pure is going to
get rejected yes yes okay why do you
think that's happening my fault because
the reason it gets rejected is because
it gets ended and it ends up getting
associated with you well to be honest so
it's like I already know the end of the
movie you brought that up with somebody
else before where I'm not this is not
now that we're talking about is very
clear to me that this is not logical but
I've predetermined that that's how it's
gonna end okay like there's a there's
something that I have that I want to
share with the world and it's a good
pure thing and at the end of the day
it's gonna get rejected and it's gonna
be my fault
who did that to you when you were young
what did you share with people that was
rejected
you
damn dude isn't it like everything my
thoughts my tension is it everything I
offers to help okay like my mean
residents yeah is that how you felt did
you feel like your presence was offense
like does something come to mind yeah
yeah for sure
residents being effect offensive I think
like grade school I fell talking about
that
[Music]
yeah I have a couple I have a number of
memories that are that are around
friends that I had when I was young that
I had falling outs with for various
reasons and kind of a sense that it was
my fault or something I don't know where
to start is I think it's kind of tangled
in some stress so why don't you just
start with just start anywhere all right
so that could just give me a memory so I
remember being really good friends with
this kid who lived across the street
beautiful was this summer home he was
older than me so maybe I was five or six
maybe he was eight or nine and I thought
that he was the coolest person in the
history of the world and you know we
hung out like we did stuff so on and so
forth he would come to my house I would
go to his house and then one day he
asked me he was like hey let me see your
laser pen my mom had just bought me a
laser pen that's like 90 bucks or
something like that which is a lot of
money when you're that young I don't
know why my parents would buy at night
anyway and so I went to grab it and I
like open the drawer where was and it
wasn't there so long story short you
know it was like pretty clear that he
stole it and like he was just doing that
he's a stupid kid like stupid kids draw
attention to things that that they did
and I definitely remember ooh
so I remember that my parents kind of
got involved and they talked to his
parents and it was kind of like he
wouldn't admit it and like was not upset
about it and you know they they were
like okay this is you know you can't be
friends with him and I distinctly
remember a feeling like I didn't really
care that he stole the laser pen I'd
rather be I'd rather have a friend and
so I almost felt like it was my fault
that they found out that they stole it
that he stole the thing cuz if they
didn't find that out then I still would
have my friend so you felt responsible
for y'all's friendship ending yeah
I remember feeling responsible yeah I
remember just feeling like I had this
thing that was you know kind of
beautiful to me or precious to me like a
really like a like a really cool friend
and it was gone and I didn't do
everything that I could have to stop
that from happening mm-hmm and so it's
almost as if you had filtered yourself
and not shared that with your parents
yeah then y'all would still be friends
yeah maybe we would yeah I mean I also
remember later which I think is like
built on top of this one wound or what
sure that you know he told me these
stories about this game clock tower we
was like oh yeah you could do anything
and like I found this woman and like
killed her and stuffed her in a basement
or some [ __ ] and I remembered tell I
know it's a kind of messed up and I
didn't understand how messed up it was
at the time and I remember that I shared
that in second grade when a teacher said
some [ __ ] about like our video games
violent or good or whatever I love video
games but for whatever reason I
volunteered this information but then I
found out that was a lie
so it kind of recontextualized the
relationship I had with him in the first
place we're like not only did he steal
this thing and not care but also lied to
me about some things that I thought were
super cool so now I've got this judgment
from my younger self or even thinking
that he was so cool so you blame
yourself for thinking he's that you
blame yourself for him thinking that he
was nice to you when he was mean to you
yes so that I think there's a lot of
that yeah okay it's probably separate
but I have a lot of that like I noticed
that when I look back at myself I really
feel not good about who that person was
in what way what do you not feel good
about I just feel like what do I feel
not good about I feel like such an idiot
when I think that I'm okay and something
gets recontextualized as I'm not okay
does that make sense
makes perfect sense so let me put it
like we're not when I have the slight
hope that I am acceptable because like
this whole some scars about unacceptable
when I have this slight hope that I am
and then I learned something later
that's like oh you were actually wrong
there too it's like wow I was such an
idiot for even like hoping yeah so that
actually does sound very related
and just as you tie those two things
together right because what I'm hearing
from you is that you have learned that
your confidence and your perception of
acceptability turns out to be false yeah
but that too so I want you to notice
this that is very selective would--they
that's selective reasoning same or good
in the place where I'm at I don't even
see it exactly right so like that's so
so if we just think about you know a can
a five year old appropriately judge the
intentions and quality of friendship
that an eight-year-old offers absolutely
not it's [ __ ] absurd five-year-olds
will get owned day after day after day
by eight-year-olds going on yeah
literally like you just you do not even
have your you're playing it's like
you're playing a game without a
controller it's like Shrek
it's like Shrek how little kids can
watch Shrek and all these jokes just go
way over like absolutely awareness and
so Shrek is running circles around
little kids yeah and and yet so even
when we stop and think about that but
like that's not how you see yourself
right you you have a standard that you
should have known better you shouldn't
have let him take advantage of you
yeah in a sense what you're doing is not
you're being unacceptable towards
yourself like you are not accepting who
you are
Yeah right and and I think that that's
the Crocs so we're talking about other
people not accepting you and and where
the feeling of unacceptance comes from I
think wherever it comes from
and certainly reinforced by yourself or
propagated actually by yourself
I think the linchpin here is that you
don't accept who you are it's not about
actually showing people so it's actually
funny because you kind of think other
people can't see the real me but what it
really is that is that you don't think
that the real you is worth showing
because you or you aren't okay that's
why you have to filter because you're
tainted I agree I agree with everything
on a visceral level except the phrase
that I don't think the real me is worth
showing it's like I I think maybe what
feels more correct is that I've already
looked and I know it's not good enough
kind of thing so it's not that it's
worth showing it's just that I know what
I'm gonna show and it's not what it
needs to be actually the the thing that
clicked for me yesterday I was talking
to a good friend and a guru and he was
kind of asking about when I chose to
look at myself that way when I chose to
not be acceptable to myself and that
does seem like the original that seems
like that thing that persists like yeah
my own yeah god I I completely agree I
mean I think this is propagated by you
right so now we have to understand so
even though Bobby this is this causes
you suffering this is how this whole
complex is based to protect you yeah
because if you believe that you are
unacceptable then you can't then other
if other people then you have to filter
because if they see what's unacceptable
it's gonna be a no brainer they're going
to reject you but this really comes down
to where so two things right so one is
where that belief comes from and when
you started to build your life around
that belief
early so now I'm gonna ask you when you
feel this way at work like when you feel
like the rejection is inevitable it's
gonna be kind of a weird abstract
question that may not sense how old are
you actually my sense of internal
structure collapses so absolutely I
think I must be so young cuz I don't
even have a sense of like my physical
body absolute yeah it makes perfect
sense so I think what you are that's a
good practice I mean I just want to
share that because I think it would be
helpful for others like if you notice
that sometimes you feel like you have
structure and sometimes if you track
literally no structure like that's I
think really meaningful cuz that's the
thing that really clicked for me is it I
have a sense of my structure right now
talking to you yeah but when I think
about being at work I actually don't
even yeah so I don't have a body so when
a some scar activates it returns your
mind to the age at which it was formed
mm-hmm so uh and so I think what's
happening is like a four or five year
old doesn't really have a sense of
internal structure right they don't so I
think what's happening is like you're
revoking these thoughts or feelings that
come from there they don't actually come
from the here and now they come from the
past yeah and so I'll just give you
another example so I was I was working
with someone and they had a lot of
social anxiety and we were talking
through like what that meant for that
like what that felt like for them and
and then you know like I kept on asking
questions and like he was just unable to
give me any kind of sophisticated
answers like I was asking like what's
the feeling and he's like I don't really
know like what's the you know so then we
were talking about so he wanted to get
it he wanted to get a job but he felt
embarrassed to go into like a place and
ask for an application for a job and as
we talked to like how irrational that is
like it didn't really make a dent and so
then like eventually like we got to like
I pushed him and I pushed him and I
pushed him in his responses I just don't
wanna
yeah and that's it right it's not
complicated it's not like Freudian there
isn't this deep subconscious conflict
it's just somewhere along the way when
he interacts with people when his mind
formed this idea I just don't want him
it's like not even a fully formed like
grammatically correct sentence the core
of it is I just don't wanna and that's
actually enough that can be the end of
the road yeah and the interesting thing
is he's doing way better now because
like now he realizes that like in him
there's a part of his mind that is just
not gonna want to do something and you
can't make sense of it it's not some
deep subconscious conflict there's no
oedipal want to sleep with your mom and
knock out your dad or like any of these
deep complicated stories it's just
within him there's a seven-year-old who
just didn't want to go to school because
he was bullied and he didn't want to put
himself in front of people and he just
doesn't wanna that's it it's the end of
it yeah there's nothing to unpack
there's nothing to explore that's it and
he carries that seed of I just don't
wanna with him all the time and there
are times where that seed emerges like
most of the time like he's able to do
things with his friends and stuff like
that I mean he actually does want to do
things he does want to get a job he
wants to get a job at particular places
he thinks the people who weren't there
cool he'd like to work there he thinks
it would be fun to work there and when
he thinks about walking up to them and
asking them for a job application via I
just don't when he gets a case of the I
just don't want us and that's the some
scar that activates and the real
challenge here is that people think so
like Bobby you think this is you right
you operate under the assumption that
this is who you are like your conclusion
so you don't treat this as like an
external thing you treat this as you
yeah so so he just feels like he's a
lazy [ __ ] because he's got a part of
him that just doesn't wanna and he
identifies with that he doesn't
understand that that is just a some scar
that activates from time to time and if
you actually look at your life that you
are valued by many people
that he's appreciated and loved and
people think he's cool and funny and
also physically and sexually attractive
and and like all kinds of stuff that he
just like to do that I just don't want
is is not able to hold that and so in
your case I mean you say that you have
all this kind of conflict and that
you're unacceptable and that you've
gotten really really good at filtering
yourself which is probably how you
rationalize your success but it sounds
like you have a kid and you're married
and you have friends and you have
meaningful relationships and also you've
you've held a job for years and so
you're not so abrasive or toxic that
they fired you which they do and so like
let's just think about that for a second
are you so good at filtering that you
have fooled all of these people so the
way that I rationalize it is actually
with a sense of duty and responsibility
to the other people who feel the way
that I feel I think somewhere along the
line I got the sense that I wasn't alone
in feeling I was unacceptable I think
that this is important because I think
that I actually grew like this separate
part with that belief in other words I
don't necessarily rational at in other
words if you ask me why I think I'm
successful I would say that like I get
it I get the struggle I build products
for the people who had the struggle that
I have hmm not everybody has the
struggle that I have and I I don't think
that I'm better than them at all I just
think that if you haven't gone to this
deep dark place awful all that stuff and
you haven't really looked around you
don't get how sensitive it is as a
four-year-old as a five-year-old as a
seven-year-old and so when I'm building
products I'm holding the four or five
six seven year olds and all of us like
in that design a beautiful feel that
like do you know that was that's I with
you so that's your daughter mine that's
your karma so this is how karma and
karma relate there's AI so related yeah
it's crazy so explain that to us
so I've had experiences in my life that
have been painful they haven't killed me
and for a long time I thought I was
alone in that and that really hurt and
so I know how much hurt there is in that
feeling and because I know how much hurt
there is I know how important it is to
tend to that and how hungry people are
for that kind of tending and that kind
of attention oh I know that you know
through that negative experience I have
something that you know later on I don't
know how it happened inside me but I
decided that we're not alone and I can
do something about it
and if I never had the experiences if I
never had if I didn't have the Karma if
I wasn't led to the place where I where
I was where I made that decision that
that's the thing that I'm gonna fix then
you know I could never have the the duty
and responsibility to do it so perfect
right so your karma even your hurt and
your suffering yeah set you up to do
your duty or responsibility you made you
the person that you are and without
those experiences you would not be able
to have hurt and suffering at the
forefront of creating products for like
creating stuff at which yeah exactly
right which is kind of bizarre because
when you think about product developers
at twitch I don't think that that's the
kind of thing that they would be
thinking about but I think if you know
you've been at twitch for six years into
which is done very well over the last
six years I think part of the reason is
because you're keeping something really
like like deeply spiritual for lack of a
better term I mean I just call it
spiritual but maybe psychological
whatever at the forefront of the work
that you do and it doesn't surprise me
that you're successful there so at the
same time I feel right is it part of the
exact same narrative where it's like hey
this is the thing that I'm doing and it
works and you will never you write to
others the people who will find me
unacceptable you'll never believe me and
never let me do the work that I feel I
have to do that's where the conflict
comes in and where I yeah so you start
to control and have that shakes of hurts
were
good so let's talk about that so the
first thing is that I think that these
things are not actually like related I
think the Dharma and karma is sort of a
genuine sense of who you are and I think
the unacceptability like the Dharma is
what lets you tolerate and get away with
your feelings of unacceptability but I
don't believe for a second that having
the Dharma that you have makes people
like you and then if you've been
successful at twitch for six years and
you've managed to get married and you
have friends and stuff like that that
human beings are pretty good at like
judging other human beings and that
there's something that they see in you
that they actually do wholeheartedly
accept otherwise because here's the
thing you're abrasive right yeah it
depends it depends on if I feels it up
so let's let's just say yes let's just
say yes and so just think about this for
a second if for someone who's as
abrasive as you are they sure as hell
have to accept something deep within you
to have to like work with you on a
day-to-day basis yeah
right yeah I am very different yeah in
context but uh-huh but I think
ultimately like I have to agree I mean I
think you're what what is my sense I
have this sense that the you know I'm
not acceptable the people who accept me
anyway those are the safe people the
people who don't those are the unsafe
people that's kind of how I've
rationalized it there's some people who
can eat who can accept someone even like
me yeah so I think that that makes sense
I don't think that that's really a
rationalization I think that's actually
just an accurate observation that for
with some people they you know you you
have the perception that you show them
the real Bobby and they accept you and
therefore they're safe and that there's
a larger camp of people who can't you
can't let them see the real Bobby
because they won't accept you in and
then you're like abrasive and combative
and you don't understand why they don't
understand what you're trying to tell
them and stuff like that and it sounds
like actually in some ways you're hard
to work with yeah that's probably true
yeah and the bizarre thing is that sure
that that's true I'm sure yeah that's
true and the bizarre thing is is that
only what to do about it
yeah we'll get to that yeah so but the
bizarre thing is that if we really look
at your situation if you have an
abrasive person who people continue to
work with rather than them being
unacceptable their acceptability has to
be way higher because your abrasiveness
is making it like harder to deal with
you sure yeah so in a really weird way I
think like the safe people are way
larger that that group is way larger
than you realize yeah so I think you're
right about that yeah yeah so now the
question is like where do we go from
here okay so the first is I want you to
recognize that you know as we start to
think those kinds of thoughts that runs
contrary to the perception and
construction that you've made
right we just say your perception is
that you're unacceptable on the inside
and through a lot of lot of surface
level filtering you can create an
appearance of acceptability but what I'm
actually hearing is quite the opposite
is that on the outside you can sometimes
be difficult and abrasive so you're not
creating anything like the filter you're
actually creating like a negative filter
not a positive filter and despite
despite the negative filter that you're
putting out in terms of your
abrasiveness and your you know internal
sense of your unacceptability people are
able to see through that [ __ ] and
still value working with you in some
capacity yeah my real sense actually so
I have the sense that I'm acceptable
deep deep down but no one will ever ever
know it like whatever however I talk
however I interface with the rest of the
world I in other words like there's some
gold deep down but there's so much [ __ ]
between the gold which is me or whatever
that no one will ever see the good
alright that's the struggle that I live
with every day okay no deep down there's
value and then I want to help and then
if I if only I didn't if only I wasn't
such a problem that stuff could get out
into the world so makes perfect sense
okay so what I'm hearing is so I'm gonna
ask you a question when so tell me about
if you remember anything about when
someone didn't dig through the [ __ ] and
find the gold when they looked inside
you you opened the doors and they just
saw a sea of [ __ ] and they like ran away
I remember feeling misunderstood as a
kid where so okay I have a really strong
memory I don't know if I brought it up
where it was a Sunday and I was playing
with my cousin's did I bring that memory
up mmm-hmm
I was having so much fun it was the kind
of childish joyas fun where you know the
whole rest of the world is gone and
you're just where you are and then on
Monday it turned out that I had homework
that I was supposed to do and I just you
know I had you know my pant I was called
my pants down and this is maybe the
third time that I forgot to do homework
or something like that and I remember
really getting the riot act or whatever
that really being like hey you you've
got a problem here and this cannot
happen anymore
and so it's kind of recontextualizing
that joy is fun with right like whoo
baby the riot couldn't my parents and I
think the teacher was like not not
particularly happy okay I remember one
time very clearly I was in fourth grade
I remember it so well that something
happened the teacher said something and
like I was actually listening to them
but I think I was doing it in an
abrasive way where it was kind of a
know-it-all way and I actually got
punished just for clarifying like what
the teacher had said because I knew that
somebody else didn't understand what
they said and I just felt like what the
f you know I'm actually trying to help
you do your job and I'm getting punished
like that makes him no sense hmm so it's
almost thought I was supposed to do and
I'm getting punished for what I'm
supposed to do yeah so what I'm hearing
is that you offered your gold and they
perceived it as [ __ ] yeah yeah I feel
like when I would think back to my
childhood there was a lot of mixed
messages like there's a lot of times
when I would be in trouble for no reason
like maybe my dad would be having a bad
day and he was just stressed and I did I
couldn't understand that he was just
venting can you tell me about your dad
yeah my dad I think that if people knew
my dad it would make so much sense out
of me he he's so okay he's like
basically always the coolest guy in the
room
he's a shorter Italian guy that he's
five seven or something like that you
know it's like a he doesn't look like
Joe Pesci at all you know he's skinnier
and stuff he's more about tough for sure
but you know I'm he tells a story where
he went to a party one time and a woman
said to him like who are you like I
you're somebody right and he was like I
could have been somebody kind of thing
and he definitely like yeah he runs the
show it was very clear for like the
whole extended family he's like the
patron by their own and he is very
vocally critical about kind of like
anybody being lazy or not pulling their
weight or whatever
and so he kind of uses humor but he's
using humor to kind of keep everybody in
check and that makes sense
he's like policing and what do you think
that what you say you said earlier that
if people like knew my dad they they'd
understand you better how does that help
us understand you I've said it I said
I've said it for a long time but I don't
necessarily know that I thought about
why I think it sure why do I think it
yeah what does that tell you about what
does that tell us about you well I've
got his blood in me and also I grew up
as you know under his kind of power and
authority and if you see the way that he
acts you'll you'll sense a tremendous
amount of stress and anxiety as well as
like a loud kind of personality
what what what does in what way does he
act that makes you feel stress and
anxiety I he feels a lot of stress and
anxiety like I think that all of his
external stuff is just dealing with his
internal state you know the the fact
that like his body system is telling him
like like flooding him all the time with
like threat signals or whatever okay I
feel definitely consistently overwhelmed
by like my body telling me that like
there's something really wrong
hmmm I think he does too what is your
body telling you is wrong now sure the
world's the world's in a bad spot we got
to do something okay
there's people suffering I think it's
60% of people are lonely in America so
it's like two out of three or something
like that I don't know some crazy number
and you feel that in your body I can
yeah what does that feel like a
tightness in my chest like a kind of
burning focus it's a sense of like fire
and it's like the laser beam right it's
a strong focused energy in a direction
and it comes with kind of like an
impatience mm-hm and a an anger around
why isn't anybody looking at this I kind
of feel that a lot yeah my dad told me
his dad was actually a union organizer
so not a union leader or whatever but he
was the guy who's in the factory saying
like what are we doing
yeah these guys are making all the money
and we're getting screwed like what are
we doing and he was so nuts about it
that he actually [ __ ] writes founded
a union yeah it's like that kind of feel
I feel like I've got that in me you know
absolutely you do that's bit that I
learned that very late in life
by the way what is it that's bit tough
yeah yeah I feel like I've got all five
tried no [ __ ] that's how I feel but yeah
well you're primarily about that pizza
so I'm sure I mean everyone has some
degree of dough shows but if you have a
fair amount of color in your face for
example and then you know we also see
that you know you're you're irritable
abrasive driven focused all bit negative
attributes and yeah so Bobby I think um
yeah you're right you know when you talk
about your dad I certainly think that
that's significant but I'm still a
little bit curious about
how he contributed to you becoming the
person that you are
he thought I was he was stressed all the
time that I was not gonna make it I
remember him walking around just being
like this kids not gonna make he's just
not gonna make it I'm not gonna this
kids not gonna make it I remember he
would say it is not a one-time thing he
would say that a lot just like throwing
his hands up ahead this kids not gonna
make it I can't protect it what is what
does that do to you what is it was that
do to a kid something yeah especially
when I felt deep deep deep down that
that was not correct right it's this
feeling of there's something down here
that he can't see and nothing I [ __ ]
do will ever change that
right yeah how could it be that there
actually is something good here and he
can't see it like he's my you know I
mean how could it be like there must be
something so wrong in the rest of me
that that's what it feels like right
yeah so what have we been talking about
for the past 30 or 40 minutes we've been
talking about this absolutely yeah
the time about the sense that like
there's something so so a lot of things
are clicking right so you said that
there are a couple things one is that he
can't see it and all he sees is you
[ __ ] up and forgetting your homework
and he also lets you know whatever it is
like random stuff yeah so so in that
that's actually a significant detail
because it's not so if it's just one
thing then you end up with some scar
that you're bad at homework you're like
oh man I suck at school or I'm not good
at setting no but in the clouds right
that kind of thing like but it's so it's
it's it's multi-dimensional for him
which also means that you're not
unacceptable in one way you're
unacceptable in every way
yes generalized yet yes and then there's
also something subtle which you kind of
mention some time ago which we haven't
explored but there's something that
bothers you about people who clearly
you're not acceptable but they have to
love you anyway mm-hmm and that sounds
like I mean it sound you know take that
statement out of context from half an
hour ago and plug it in here it fits
perfectly because we're talking about of
all people your dad mm-hmm yeah and it's
kind of like I guess I had the sense
that other people we're kind of faking
it mm-hmm yeah of course so that I think
is also completely rational for a young
kid because you trust your parents and
you you sort of set your compass like
you set the gold standard based on how
your parents treat you and if the rest
of the world is congruent with that
that's fantastic and if it's not you
don't accept the rest of the world and I
see this a lot actually in cases of
abuse where like when a child is taught
that they're a piece of [ __ ] and then
like like when they're adults and like
people treat them with love and care and
respect how do you think they respond no
well why not really you kind of can't
believe it right yeah absolutely come up
with a story that makes it not the
simple truth absent just be that's
perfect
it's [ __ ] confusing and bewildering
to them they do not understand it that's
all it's so confusing yeah and so then
what they do is is they they start doing
all kinds of weird acting out behaviors
to align the relationship with what they
believe about themselves Yeah right so
they start doing things that drive their
partners like I'm just thinking about
romantic situations where like someone
is genuinely like loved and cared for by
another person and that's so confusing
for them so they start doing things that
shift the relationship towards something
that they like or familiar with which
actually is to try to incite their
partner to like get angry with them or
sometimes even like try to get them to
be physically abusive I've worked with
someone who literally would like just
attack their partner because they wanted
their partner to like beat the [ __ ] out
of them
and the partner just wouldn't do it and
it was just really really confusing and
it took some time to untangle but it's
wild like what people will do like they
want to play the game that they know how
to play yeah
and so the funny thing is that if we
want to get really sort of you know
loose associations what do you do at
work yeah
[Music]
you
okay how do I have an original idea
about this right now because as you
asked that question I know I've said
things along these lines about my
behavior and reflection in the past in
other words I'm kind of don't mean you
don't give me the answer that I don't
give me the answer that I want don't
give me the right answer answer give me
your answer the one that pops into my
head when I look at my own behavior is
like I'm trying so hard to get the gold
out and I kind of go up to bed and but I
do it in this way that's self-defeating
you know absolutely do it in a way where
and I'm not but the thing is that I feel
very blind to what is happening in the
middle you know as do they but if you're
[ __ ] abrasive at work you're driving
them towards unaccepting yeah
yeah you're trying to make them feel
about you the way that you feel about
yourself because then the world makes
sense and then on the flip side you're
trying to do the exact opposite because
you're paranoid and you're fighting and
you're conflicted and that's why I like
it sounds like you're in a state of
semi-conscious constant torture yeah
yeah sounds awful with yeah that's not
yeah it's not fun it's definitely not
fun so I mean I you know I don't know I
mean I think personally it's a little
bit of a stretch to think that you're
really sort of subconsciously kind of
driving people towards being unaccepting
that's the kind of you know
psychoanalysis level [ __ ] that I
normally call [ __ ] on so I think
what I do right is like I'll go into an
interaction I don't think I start as
abrasive necessarily but maybe I do
honestly when I feel more like it's a
powerful person or a person with power I
am worse that's for sure so let me ask
you something if someone starts to
accept your ideas is generally accepting
your ideas how do you feel
I think a little bit desperate see this
is weird right so this makes perfect
sense this is consistent with our
hypothesis because what's actually
happening is you are getting accepted
they're actually accepting your ideas
and then you get confused and then you
get desperate why don't they get
desperate it's like it's like it's
there's a thing here that I've that I'm
want so badly and like I can't let it
get away kind of thing and so what do
you do in your interactions with them
like dump absolutely dump what does that
mean
so there's basically it's like a damn
there's like a damn of all these things
that I've wanted to share with people
for years and years and years and so you
know it's like I feel like no one is
ever gonna listen sort of thing because
of because I suck and so if I sense that
someone is listening it's like that dam
just blows open and all of there's so
much that I want to say and it's very
very overwhelming and disorganized and
then how do they respond like they're
overwhelmed and have no idea and then
what does that do to the size of your
dam well I think once the good comes out
and it runs them over like if they
haven't received it properly then the
angry starts to come out actually sure
and then I think the next day what you
do is you build your dam higher yeah for
the next person yeah first absolutely
right so now we're seeing like like this
is all kind of tied together because
like what happens is when you get a
little bit of acceptance yeah you flood
them with it and so then what happens is
like you get back to this kind of idea
that like you're reinforcing this idea
that you're like they're not gonna
accept what you have then you have to
build the walls higher yeah and actually
to be honest it's like it's it starts
from the prenup in other words even when
I interact with people it's like I start
from the premise that they're not gonna
accept me and maybe if they accept
things it'll be because of my resume and
because of the quality because so I
focused the whole conversation on these
things that I'm not even sure they when
I'm talking with you I'm not sure if
anybody cares about okay so it's kind of
like I'm preparing a case for why they
should say I'm preparing a case yeah I
understand I killed somebody you know it
so you'd but then on the other hand look
at all these good things and me I'm on
the balance you can get over you know
this dam because of all this stuff over
here so Bobby might
I'm gonna try to offer so first of all
let's just take a step back because I'd
like to offer you something kind of
concrete which I hope will let you move
forward in a like a at least one serious
step because I'm getting the sense that
we're sort of teasing a lot of stuff
apart but I'm going I'm getting a
growing sense within me of like what do
we do about all of us yeah so first of
all help me understand what we've
covered today and and what you think
like where are we
like like recap for me what you
understood from our discussion today
give me one sec so I had not said
explicitly the part about my dad kind of
my experiences of my dad giving me the
sense that there may be something good
here but it's like no one will ever see
it and it's like there's so much in the
way that's bad I had never explicitly
said that and I think it that's super
core
aside from that I think that I'm aware
of most of what we discussed and I think
what we're talking about is kind of a
double bind where how do I put this and
I feel like that's where the sense of
what do we do about it comes from even
in Me's I've worked very very very
desperately on you know this this
problem in that I at the same time
believe that I'm good and that I'm
complete I believe that I'm like good
and complete at the same time yep and
that that causes me to act in super
confusing ways yep to myself and to
other people
absolutely is that maybe the simplest
way to put it
beautiful way to put it right so your
confusion this is a problem of confusion
this is a problem of someone who is
taught that love involves physical abuse
and then just gets [ __ ] and confused
because there's a part of them that also
realizes that they deserve
honest and authentic love that involves
no abuse and there's a part of them that
also has learned go when I look for
acceptance from my dad I think that what
the case that I want to provide is I'm
almost saying hey Dad I heard everything
that you told me and I've started from
the premise that I'm not gonna make it
and so I thought about this which is bad
and here's the answer I've right I've
mitigated this problem with myself I've
mitigated this one with myself and I
mitigated this one and that's why you
should trust me
in other words I know that I'm bad and
I've done all this work to like be
acceptable for this one moment
what do you what do you think about that
so that sounds like that's a very common
pattern in your life right have you done
that was like when you bring up the
abuse which is not my experience but
it's like I want someone to hit me so
that then right we can kind of get
closer I know that the hits gonna happen
let's just get it over with and then we
can find our way to a place where like
we can be okay with the fact that I got
hit yeah yeah so what I'm hearing is
let's just let's just here's what I'm
hearing from you in terms of like your
the premise that you're unacceptable and
damage control you're saying okay why
don't you guys just tell me I'm
incompetent to begin with so that I can
get to all of the reasons why you guys
should still value what I'm doing 100
let's just get the fact that I'm in
competence completely out of the way
let's start scale even if I'm
incompetent
I still think you guys should buy this
blender for $19.99 plus shipping and
handling if you buy one right now you're
gonna get a second one for free
that's exactly right right that's
exactly right yeah I'm the shittiest
user of a blender I cut all my fingers
off you I could blender like you should
trust me because I'm an idiot
yeah no one understands incompetent
blender customers more than me yeah so
how do we how do we get get out of this
okay so a couple of thoughts okay so the
first is you have to let go of the
premise that you're unacceptable and I
realize that's easy to say and hard to
do but the the tricky thing here is that
when you're letting go so why is it hard
to let go the premise you're
unacceptable because
it opens you up to uncertainty and
potential failure so in a weird way
you've got a game plan that involves
Bobby being unacceptable
yeah and so the problem I think which
what's really difficult is that you sort
of built a party around you know let's
say like you're playing like an RPG and
you like build a party that's like all
mages and then like you built this party
and then you've come up with the
strategy to like still win with all
mages even though all mages is like
generally speaking a terrible party but
also my favorite kind of party to play
and so I come up with these like super
convoluted strategies of like you know
spamming consumables and buying scrolls
and stuff early on in the game until my
mages actually come online and then I
[ __ ] start tearing things apart
because you can just see see and like
AoE the [ __ ] out of anything that comes
your way and this is why you're
successful because you came up with this
sort of like premise that's messed up
but then you also have a lot of faith
and when your strategy comes online yeah
and that's the bullet points right
because you're like let's call me
acceptable and let's move to the bullet
points because the bullet points like
that's when my page may just come online
and like it doesn't matter
that it doesn't matter that we can't use
swords or armor or we have no healers
you guys think that this is busted
because you think that you need a tank
and you think you need a healer but I
can show you without all this stuff with
my all mage strategy you can still do it
yeah so the really tricky thing here is
that if you abandon your premise you
also abandon your solution and you
abandon your possibility for success
you're re-entering and zone of
uncertainty that could lead to failure
once again so I think that's part of the
reason you you attach yourself to this
premise because at the end of the day
this strategy Bobby has worked for you
yeah so once I want to ask does it make
a difference where like you said I can
show you that this works and it's true I
can show you but not if you don't look
and I've got this other thing about like
you'll never let me show you kind of
thing sure I think that change your
analysis at all in terms of how I should
think about it not really because I
think it's just it's just that's just
part of the
you know it's part of the complex it's
part of the mechanism so you have a some
scar but then you also have these other
like coping mechanisms that you've
created in your mind to account for that
and and and I think that like to unravel
the really tricky thing so you know when
I I'm just trying to think about this so
one of my supervisors once told me that
growing up is the process of abandoning
what works yeah and that kind of struck
me and I was kind of confused about that
and then you know is the more that I
thought about it sort of like well I
mean when you when you when you're two
and you throw a temper tantrum like you
can kind of get away with that but as
you get older there are things that you
used to do that you have to give up and
like later in life so for example when I
talk about medical students so medical
students are very very grades oriented
and that's worked very well for them
because they were the top of their class
in high school
top of their class in college honors
students did excellent like you don't
have 3.9 GPA s and did really well on
standardized tests and they come to med
school and they hit the hospital and
then suddenly it's not about tests
anymore and so they've always tried to
be the best and so they ask you over and
over again how am i doing and we say
you're doing fine you're doing great
good job good job kid good job and then
when when grades come around what grade
do you think they get I mean I've had
this experience mmm not a good one so
they get an average grade which is in
their mind not a good one and then they
get really [ __ ] confused because
they're like you said I did a great job
every day and you I just got an average
grade and then we say well yeah that's
because your average because we're
comparing you with other med students
who are also showing up every day and
working really hard and you're now
average and it kind of just blows their
mind so some kids get honors okay and so
then the the the the I mean the trihard
bet they're all try hards they get
really confused and they're like you
said I did a great job yeah I asked you
what I need to do they don't say it like
this because they're too terrified of
you like I've spent my whole life with
the professor telling me you need to
study the
this this and this and you will get an a
on a test and I came here and I asked
you what do you want me to do you laid
out my responsibilities I fulfilled
every one of those responsibilities why
don't I get an A and so what we have to
do is teach them to abandon what works
and so what I try to explain to the med
students is that like it doesn't matter
like whether like I'm not the standard
that you should be judging yourself by
right you're nodding so it looks like
you understood something what are you
but what are you thinking so I think I'm
the person who asked that question
directly and if I don't get the answer
that you're giving me I get very angry
yep in other words I feel it's
acceptable to give this person an
average grade when you've you know but
then the next thing you need to say is
okay the way to get a better grade than
average is to abandon what's worked by
getting difficult and that's little
growth you know that's real leadership
and I've respect that that's a good
answer so if I get some dumbass answer
like well blah blah blah I get very
upset yeah so a lot of times the med
students get upset thankfully I've had
some years to practice this and so what
I what I tell them is like you should be
not thinking about what I want is your
supervising physician you should be
thinking about your patients needs
yeah for sure and the the the kids who
get honors are the ones that actually
don't and it's not that they don't care
about what I want they do everything but
their focus is not on the grade their
focus is on the patient yeah that's my
strength is that my focus is generally
on the people who need and that I serve
them yep but then when it comes to my
relationship with the professor like
it's contentious its contentious so
until they make it easy for the
professor I'd okay that I need to sit
and think about that so so the the point
here is that like Bobby I think you've
got a winning strategy and just like all
of the med students who have a winning
strategy that gets them to that point
what I try to impress upon the med
students is you're no longer studying
for a grade like I don't think you guys
get this one day you're gonna be it's i
funny I told this this story yesterday
one day you're gonna be on an airplane
and someone is gonna ring a button like
a call bell and they're not sorry you're
gonna hear an announcement where the air
hosts or the air hostess is going to say
is there a doctor on the plane
and then you're gonna be terrified it's
happened to me it's the most terrifying
experience in the world scariest thing
that's ever happened to me and then you
wait and you cross your fingers because
you hope that there's someone else hmm
right you hope that someone else does it
no one does and they say it again and
then you're like well [ __ ] I gotta do
this because this is what I trained for
me yeah and you hit the call bell and
then they go over and you know they call
you over and then you go and then like
like there's a pregnant lady who's like
has bad stomach cramps and then the
pilot asks you this question which is
should we land the plane immediately
that's what you need to be studying for
and that's what you should think about
every day when you come to the hospital
understand it's not about pleasing me
it's not about knowing the names of your
medications it's that like one day
someone is gonna need your help and are
you prepared for that moment because
it's [ __ ] terrifying yeah is she
having indigestion or is she having a
placental rupture where not only is she
losing the baby but she's gonna die
within 60 minutes from internal bleeding
or did she eat too much dairy and in
that moment you can't say I mean what my
personal fear is I can't say I'm a
[ __ ] psychiatrist I don't know real
medicine Yeah right that's what I'm
scared of and so that somewhere along
the way the med students get that it's
no longer about the grade and you're
actually becoming a doctor and that
people's lives are gonna depend on you
even if you're a psychiatrist who spends
his time talking to people on twitch if
I'm on the subway or if I'm on an
airplane like I can't say I'm sorry I
spend most of my time on Twitch I can't
help you unacceptable so they have to
abandon what works and what you have to
do is abandon what works and it's gonna
be terrifying you have to let go my keys
so you have to let go of your lists you
have to let go of your lists and you
have to let go of your unacceptability
yeah so I said ability then the list
goes to beautiful
right but but there's a lot of comfort
in that whole package for you because
that's what's worked so you have to let
yourself potentially fail and what I
mean by potentially fails you have to
give other people their agency back
which you take away from them yep right
you have to let them yeah right so you
have to let them be okay with your idea
not being okay that I don't think you
can do so that's something you need to
work on right so in in the so this is
I'm gonna go back to kind of the abusive
person so the most terrifying thing for
that person is actually like accepting
the possibility that this person
genuinely loves them is if this person
treats them abusively and then five
years ago from now they leave the person
in the abusive relationship is actually
okay with that because they always knew
it was gonna happen this is a game I
played before I can deal with
abandonment I know how to do it and as
long as you hold onto the possibility as
long as you hold onto that idea that I'm
not worth loving it's easy to deal with
abandonment what's terrifying is
actually like accepting someone's love
and believing that you're not worth
abandoning not like carrying those you
know putting those walls up and then the
possibility of abandonment people do not
want to do that they say I can't take it
if I presume that I'm gonna fail at the
beginning I can take a failure but if I
let myself hope and believe that I can
be loved and that I can be successful
and then I fail I can't do it it's gonna
destroy me I'm not that strong so
something very protective about all of
this stuff for you yeah right it's the
same reason why half of our audience
doesn't give it their all when they
study for a test yeah because if you
study for a test and you studied as hard
as you could and you get a B you're
[ __ ] dumb but if you're lazy you get
to hold on to being smart because I
didn't give it my all yeah giving it
your all is the most terrifying thing in
the world because then if you fall up
short you're short and there's no excuse
yeah so I think you've got to give it
your all and I think you've got to let
let go of control a couple of other
things to remember one is that I want
you to recognize that this some scar
exists within you right so it's not
correct it's not wrong it's just a piece
yeah
it's like if you're developing a
strategy for smash like you know you can
there are different characters that have
different strategies it's not like one
is the dominant truth it's just they're
different ways to play the game so in
your case you have a four or
five-year-old that sometimes thinks this
all this unacceptability stuff like that
and it's gonna dictate it's gonna want
to dictate your actions yeah as best as
you can as you see that just notice that
it wants to dictate your actions but
that it doesn't you don't have to let
that dictate your actions just see it
within you it doesn't mean it's wrong
right so like you're in a double bind
because you've got one horse that's
pulling you this way in one horse that's
pulling you this way put the horses
together there's still individual horses
they're not different but you can move
in one direction even though one of them
is like like you know you can have that
four-year-old within you and acknowledge
that that person is there and still move
forward and still speak and still
recognize that I don't have to convince
people I'm gonna actually just I'm gonna
choose to let go of the unacceptability
and also the absolute cheat code god
mode of my logic I'm gonna let go of
them both I'm gonna share my ideas and
then I'm gonna let people like cuz I
know that like there's a part of me that
doesn't want to just share my idea you
guys you guys have to listen to all of
it don't just listen to part of it don't
judge me halfway or you like I like
actually and I love watching your stream
cuz you approach this so differently you
start with your idea and you if I were
you my stream would have been two months
of me saying like okay I've thought
about this I could have been wrong in
this it's like could in other words I
never would have shared my ideas cuz I
would have just shared this extensive
case about like why you should listen to
me even though you probably do you know
what I mean no like when you'd wait if
imagine if you started your stream you
were like hey I
no you guys don't spirituality let me
like you know and you kind of defended
this angle you didn't you're just
totally obsessed with why people
shouldn't believe you and you're just
attacking these beliefs that you believe
could be out there and then after all
that then you share your ideas yeah so I
mean I like such a [ __ ] way to talk
absolutely
so like the reason that I people don't I
don't because it doesn't work right so
like like this doesn't work I just tell
you so Bobbi like let me tell you right
what I think I do you with you right
yeah yeah so I I think which is so like
I don't I don't I don't know that I'm
gonna help you I don't know that what
you're gonna say is going to be
acceptable to you I just I have no idea
right so what I have is a sense of faith
in Who I am but I don't have the the
winning strategy and not to draw too
much of a comparison between the two of
us but I think that's the only thing
that work because I've tried it your way
and doesn't [ __ ] work it doesn't is
that you be the person that you are and
you let your compass of trying to help
these gamers on Twitch and 60 percent of
people are lonely and you go to those
people you go to your colleagues at
twitch and you say hey I have this idea
I'd love to share it with you guys and
you don't try to convince them you let
them you you know it's it's the cake
that's in the display case you're not
the person who's giving out samples
you're just gonna make your cake you're
gonna stick it in the display case and
you're gonna let them choose and if they
want it they're gonna have it you're not
the person who's like hey would you like
to try a hey hey try this oh put a
little schmear this on this
why don't you dip it in here like you
know like just take a step back in and
give what you have to give and let the
world receive it and recognize that
there's the four year old the five year
old who's gonna be terrified about that
there's all the whole gold nugget and
[ __ ] like what you need to do is give
them a [ __ ] cake with a gold nugget on
top just give them it give it all to
them don't try to just give them the
gold and don't try to hold back the [ __ ]
just give it all to them because they
see it all anyway I know it's terrifying
I think that there's like you're just
not you're not that manipulative to
where you can really hide that much
Bobby you're not very manipulative so
you're like no uncertainty you're low on
the sociopathy scale like you're a kind
of strategy of filtering information and
stuff like that works you just have to
be way more sociopathic for that to be a
successful strategy for you the last
thing that I'll leave you with is we got
to talk about your mom okay so another
thing and I don't know that we have to
do this today but one of my supervisors
once told me it's the parent that they
don't so one parents the smoking gun and
there's another parent that they don't
talk about and the money is that the
parent that they don't talk about
there's plenty with yeah there's plenty
there okay flip though I will tell you
in Flint if I was a teen I would only
talk about my mom sure not talk about my
dad right so that there's a lot about
acceptability and and who you became to
be and I'm sorry that you know it sounds
like there were many experiences where
you really did just try to be yourself
and the world punished you for it yeah
and and I think you just need to
recognize that like that happened to you
and just because the world has punished
you in the past I mean there are
overwhelming numbers of people who have
accepted you for who you are
and yet this some scar has not been
processed because like it's not some
scars can't fight against each other
like that like you you were beloved in
the smash community you know it's clear
that you know my twitch at likes you I
like you you're married yeah your wife
likes you presumably you have a
three-year-old he's kind of a fan a lot
yeah and things I'm cool yeah do you
feel unacceptable with him dude
sometimes yeah so notice that right and
understand that's that is past week
we're sure I've noticed it more because
that was the practice you gave me yeah I
do notice it more so but that's not
coming from him it's coming from you a
hundred percent
right so that you think that I the thing
that was said to me yesterday that I
think really helped was that it's like I
at a certain point when I was very young
I chose to have me be than me that my
dad saw or that somebody else saw and
like I had to remember who that me was
that made that decision
cuz that me is the
that's you know does that kind of make
sense it makes it so I'll put it to you
another way so I think what so some
scars and the things that you cope
around them are learned behaviors yeah
so like I think about anxiety I mean not
all like sometimes it's you know true
biological anxiety that wasn't learned
but for a lot of people especially the
kind of anxiety that I see a lot now
it's like a learned anxiety it's just
your brain literally trying to cope or
adapt to a certain set of circumstances
and I don't know I mean I think you made
a choice I don't know if I would call it
a choice but I definitely think that you
I mean yeah you can call it a choice I
think it was sort of a subconscious
choice maybe it's a good way to put it
but I think you learned to accept your
dad's premise about who you are in the
same way that the abuse of the person
who gets into an abusive relationship
who has abusive parents learn to accept
their opinions like their parents
opinions of who they are mm-hmm and so I
completely read and that's why we got to
go back to like where this started right
and I think sure maybe it was the
four-year-old I think these some scar
has been kind of added on to those are
all pieces that are strengthening it
yeah but there's just this general idea
that like you know you're not acceptable
number one and secondly that there's
something about people that are that you
love and respect being forced to
associate with you despite your smell
yeah good way to put it and and just
notice those things and I'd say like you
know Bobby I think I think you've got
unfortunately a long road ahead of you
but I think you know I have faith that
you're gonna do do well not because you
have a winning strategy but because I
think you're gonna continue to try I'm
definitely gonna continue to try yeah
thoughts or questions do you have any uh
I would like to meditate again and have
a practice I did some chanting but I
only kind of do it at home like when can
me I think that feels really good
like letting it out as opposed to
forcing it is a big difference yep
[Music]
yeah give me a second I also feel like
yeah go ahead god no just gonna say I
also you know when I've kind of done
sort of parts of myself like kind of
thought about what's going on in my
experience I think I actually have like
a pretty strong third eye experience
when I am understanding something but at
the practice of pointing my finger I
never connected the dots between those
two places I guess and I wonder if
there's something there that I could let
me just think for a second
um okay let me just think for a second
I'm gonna just take a quick ad break
because I've been told to do that one
and then I just need to think
and then we'll teach meditation when I
get and I need to blow my nose and stuff
so I'm gonna just run to the restroom
let's talk about meditation when I get
back
you
ad is still there okay let me think no
ads chat should we do something new or
something old should we do the same one
again
you
so how do we teach you a meditation
about acceptability let me think
do you want something that's a little
bit more focused or more contemplative
so that's a slice contemplative is my
strict go-to strategy so maybe that's
not like I'm good at it but on the other
hand I use it to deal with my as a
coping strategy not as a yeah so I mean
I'm not I think sometimes when it comes
to meditation the goal is for you to
have a practice that's easy
kind of easy for you to do so we can try
to do something contemplative I'm trying
to figure to be honest I think that so I
think that if I could so there's a place
when I was learning how to how to wave -
it's like an advanced tech and Super
Smash Brothers mmm where if you're
trying to learn something in a video
game you kind of just go into it being
like okay I'm gonna I'm gonna beat this
level I'm gonna I'm gonna learn how to
do this and it doesn't matter if it
takes a week or a month or a year you're
just kind of gonna kind of do it and you
kind of explore something that you're
just gonna keep trying and it's it's
okay to mess up and I really love that
part of video games and I'm wondering
like
there's a way to kind of like just
recommit to being me and not worry about
the consequences of being me that was
the thing that you said last time that
really stuck with me I think I live in
the consequences of being me and so I'm
trying to refocus like where my mind is
- not five seconds after whatever I'm
thinking about saying but just where I
does that make sense yeah okay that's
helpful
so I think that we're gonna do something
that maybe is a little bit different but
let me just think about how to structure
us how can I
how do you feel about breath oriented
meditations my breathing sucks so I feel
really good about it what is that I
breathe very shallowly I find it very
difficult to breathe deeply
I find that uh I kind of feel like I
like I don't know if it's gas or
whatever but something will build up
when I'm trying to breathe deeply that
does they kind of prevent gets in the
way then I kind of feel like I have to
burp or something hmm which doesn't also
doesn't work I don't know if that's
super weird but okay first thing that I
want you to sit up straight and close
your eyes we get a pillow sure hips hips
above knees yep very good okay
so I'm gonna teach you a technique
around the double bond okay mm-hmm so I
want you to notice you but do you have a
tennis ball by chance or something
that's tennis ball shape can you go grab
it so if you guys have a tennis ball go
grab one if you don't have a tennis ball
we're gonna try to use your fist okay so
Bobby I want you to close your eyes and
breathe in and out through your nose and
tell me first if you can discern whether
one ball one nostril is more open than
the other
I think my right okay so go ahead and
block your lap nostril and breathe in
through your right it does it to any
finger it doesn't matter yes so just
block one off so it'll be then and then
after one breath switch and then check
the other nostril full breath
yeah just confirm whether your left gang
or right gang maybe left I don't know
kind of in the middle I think that's
more clear okay so then what I want you
to do is to take the tennis ball and
stick it under your left armpit kind of
up into the armpit like push it up yeah
you kind of feel it pressing into your
like up in there okay kind of make it
almost a little bit uncomfortable like
pressure yeah it's a little one guy feel
a little bit of like in the back okay so
like almost like imagine if you were
like leaning with your armpit over a
railing okay good so close your eyes now
observe your breath and with each breath
notice which nostril is more open and
then try to catch the transition so you
can put your fist into your armpit if
you want
the other thing that you can do is lay
down on the if you guys are watching at
home if that's it's which do you catch
it I think it did so if it's switched to
then move the tennis ball other arm pet
can't confirm it yeah switch the tennis
ball now catch it this time
so the other thing that you all can do
cuz the fists can be a little bit
awkward is that you can lay down on the
side of your open nostril so if your
left nostril is open lay down on your
left and if your right nostril is open
lay down on your right it switched again
are you catching it I think I think it
was between two breaths like it was the
exhale so I want you to focus it the it
kind of that the back or top of your
nose because that's where you may feel
the switch and you're gonna get one
breath in there with both nostrils open
maybe a couple
you
I figured switching really fast
it's it's a it starts on this yeah it's
switching super [ __ ] fast okay so now
we have your problem right so I think
this is so you got it so you can stop
for a second Bobby so what I'm gonna do
let's try to do it slightly differently
which one's open now left okay so I want
you to your couch in the back I want you
to lay down on your left side okay and
just kind of just just lay down on your
left nope just lay down on your left
side yeah it's it's very strange that
his is switching correctly so I think
this is the right technique for him I
won't be able to hear you
okay so lay down on your on whichever
side is open and then watch it switch
and then come back when it after it
switches alright and try to catch
yourself in the middle of the switch
you
yeah it's very strange it normally does
not switch that fast yeah
can relax [ __ ] how do I tell him to put
a pillow under his head because he looks
[ __ ] awkward Jesus that looks
uncomfortable like so stiff
poor Bobby he tries so hard
you
okay I think I caught a dude okay so it
was quick okay good so first of all you
know you can lay down in a more relaxed
fashion you don't have to like keep your
header like you could have like gotten
on a pillow just comfortably
okay okay so first of all it's very
unusual that you're you're you're not
ease are switching so rapidly like
usually it takes like at least like six
30 60 seconds so but this also is cool
because I think this is the right
technique for you so Bobby you we've
been talking about the double bind what
you need to learn how to do is to live
in between two things to live in the
tension as opposed to being pulled onto
two sides so there's a tension within
you and I think it's clear to me that
like you need to live in the space of
that transition so there's going to be
one breath in there where either
inhalation or exhalation things are
gonna be even in balance before you
switch over so just spend time in the
middle of those two things and what you
can you can also do is like you don't I
mean this is weird I've never had
someone who switches so quickly so I
don't know that you need to worry about
this by the way go ahead I think that I
learned very young not to trust myself
so my left and right hemispheric brains
don't trust each other so there's just a
bunch of like ah I don't know if that
makes any sense but I just like as I
think through things I noticed that I
switched from like what is the meaning
and how does this make sense
holistically to well none of the facts
support this and it's like they're kind
of disagreeing and they're fighting all
the time right so you need to find your
corpus callosum which is the thing that
connects your two hemispheres right so
you need to find you need to live in the
in-between spaces that's so so it's so
cheering there it shouldn't be a
battleground right so I what I want you
to understand so like imagine that I
have to you know if I take like two
boards and I lean them against each
other those two boards are opposing each
other and you could argue that that's a
battleground right because one of them
wants to fall this way the other one
wants to fall this way but
I set them up there's actually like
there's no conflict that is just the
tendency of one board and the tendency
of the other board are creating conflict
and opposition but in between them
there's actually peace and balance and
you need to start learning how to live
in that space and I think this is a
technique that's gonna help you with
that just like you said your if your two
hemispheres don't trust each other
fantastic so start to learn la live in
the in-between spaces do you have any
idea what that feels like could you kind
of maybe say a word or two about what it
might feel like to live in the tension
yes I can but I'm not going to okay
so part of this is tricky because I'm
trying to teach you sort of a middle
technique without the beginning and
without the end so this is sort of the
preparatory technique the main thing
though is that the other thing you can
do is you don't necessarily have to use
the tennis ball if you're switching very
rapidly you can just observe your breath
and catch the the switch naturally okay
so I don't think that you should have it
ping ping pong hang back and forth so
rapidly so if you want to you know have
it breathe for a couple minutes and then
you want to force switch you can breathe
for a couple minutes and then you want
to force a switch but see if you can
catch the natural transition and and
when that transition happens just fully
implant yourself in that space with one
breath that is both right nostril and
left nostril and then you tell me how it
feels to live in the in-between okay
thoughts questions feels good thanks so
much for everything that you're doing
man
yeah man it's been a pleasure thanks for
coming on a couple times and also you
know rescheduling so rapidly for sure
any thoughts on who we should raid I'm I
was thinking I would stream so I mean if
you want to yeah we can just raid you
that's right Bobby are you streaming or
Mike I'm about to you I wasn't cuz the
camera won't let me it wouldn't let me
you know you couldn't see me go to Bobby
was dreaming okay which underscore scarf
alright thanks a lot Bobby will raid you
take care yeah you too oh wow
thank you mass stars for the how many is
that
holy 100 gift bomb thank you very much
for the you know gigantic pile of subs
okay so for a couple of things to make
things so you know sometimes I struggle
on stream because I'm not sure like what
to teach because some stuff is very
applicable to the person and I think
less applicable to twitch at dodged what
I'm confused why does people say dodged
oh they dodge the subs thanks for the
hundred gifted subs really mash stars we
really appreciate it so that'll go to
you no it'll go to fun something or
other so I'm sorry if that you know that
meditation practice was like odd for you
guys cuz it's very strange that Bobby's
like switching so rapidly but if you
guys are if you're struggling in some
way and you feel like you're in a double
bind that practice could be good for you
too so this practice is part of
something called sawara sadhana so era
means breath or sound and yoga is sort
of a particular set of practices that
are sort of a designed to get you to
enlightenment purely through the breath
and it's different from be passionate
because sort of sadhana isn't really
about doing things with your breath
which is more Brown I am
it's about observing nuances of the
breath so I'll give you guys kind of a
another practice so if you close your
eyes and you pay attention to your
breath you'll feel the flow of air
through your nostrils right and now I
want you to figure out which of your
nostrils is dominant so one of your
nostrils is gonna be more open than the
other
left Ganga right gang okay so now what I
want you guys to do if y'all ready for
the next level this is gonna be hard
left gang right gang so if you guys have
some practice with this now I want you
to notice the direction of the breath
okay within your nose so what I mean by
that is okay so if you think about your
nose like this right so here's your
right nostril here's your left nostril
dr. K okay so you can feel let's use
like a brush or something yeah so you
can feel the breath around here or you
can feel it here or you can feel it here
there's going to be a dominant place
where your breath is coming out of your
nostril it's going to be equal both
sides very rarely does this make sense
to anyone there's going to be one area
like it could be here or here what are
you're gonna feel the breath more there
are five distinct zones
so what you guys want to do is as you
breathe just notice which zone you're in
right so this is tricky because like so
sorta silent is hard it's like a more
subtle practice and it's like really not
for everyone which is fine doesn't mean
you're bad at meditation the whole point
of teaching different meditation
techniques is cuz like some people know
what charging the laser beam feels like
and other people are like I have no idea
what that is
and other people you do left gang right
gang and they're like yeah that makes
perfect sense how do you guys not
understand this so what you guys want to
do is just pay attention to the
different zones of your nose and just
focus on that and try to feel what they
are so what I'll ask you guys is that
I'll tell you that there are a certain
number of zones in each nostril so you
guys tell me what are the zones of each
nostril so I'll say let's let's say five
okay so five directions that your breath
can go within each nostril and and try
to just see try to find all five in each
nostril and that's your meditation
practice right so it's not so important
what it is right now but as you so what
I want you guys to do is is understand
so try to catch all five of them the
zones are what you you need to figure
that out I'm not gonna tell you what
they are and if you guys don't know what
what I'm talking about that's actually
completely fine
right so for those of you who think your
five had like digital donger that's just
for directions buddy where's the fifth
and do this practice do it throughout
the day because you're not gonna like
doesn't make sense like if one zone is
active that's the zone that's gonna be
active right now you can continue
watching the breath but it's gonna be
the same part that's gonna be active and
so practice it for a while so listen
guys I just want to thank you guys again
for all of the support and for all the
subs and things like that you know our